FIP: Soulbound claims (#49)
fairDataSociety/FIPs: text/0014-soulbound-claims.md

- FIP: 14
- title: Soulbound tokens for identity claims
- author: @molekilla (Rogelio Morrell)
- status: draft
- created: 2022-06-27

# Summary

> Soulbound tokens for identity claims allows for a better user and developer experience by using existing Web3 technologies based on NFT token standards. In this FIP we described our findings and recommendations for FDP identity claims.

Author: the sample smart contract is a NFT without transfer solidity code. but terminology wise is not the same

# Context and motivation
Decentralized Society is the next paradigm in the Ethereum ecosystem. Its focus is for `social use cases` where data is the main transferrable asset. A `Soul` represents an entity either a company, a group of people or a single person, which posses `Soulbound Tokens` or `SBTs`. These SBTs represent claims given to a Soul, these claims are `non-transferrable` and can be used as a `Verifiable Credential` or VC. 

SBTs also allows for metadata to be either private (eg privacy-enabled with ZKP) or public. 

# Guide-level explanation

FDP claims can be upgraded to work with Soulbound tokens. This feature gives holders a more Web3 way, to verify provenance and trust. 

- As an issuer, I need to grant claims for one or more assets / data items
- As an issuer, I need to revoke claims
- As a holder, I need to read my issued claims
- As a holder, I need to share my issued claims with a verifier

> - As a verifier, I need to ask a holder for verification 

Reviewer: this process should support automatic steps without async, shouldn't it?

Author: Automatic steps you refer to delegated authority  (EOA or smart contract address
) like did-ethr? I didn't described this here because it might be a separate topic

- As a verifier, I need to verify holder proof / presentation

# Reference-level explanation

## Milestones

## Milestone 1 - Issuer

> A Dapp with issuer capabilities can grant and revoke SBT to holders. The claims that the issuers creates are stored in Swarm, with the hash in the onchain SBT token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Dapp with issuer capabilities can grant and revoke SBT to holders. The claims that the issuers create are stored on Swarm, with the hash of the on-chain SBT token.

```

Depending on the use case, these claims can be revoked or renewed.

The implementation must be able to:

- Have SBT issuer smart contracts

> - JavaScripts / Typescript library

Reviewer: I would link here the JS library for FDP contracts for reference: https://github.com/fairDataSociety/fdp-contracts/tree/master/js-library

Author: Regarding more details,  you are very right, that's the reason I wanted to get your feedback. Indeed, it might be technical bounty, but I need to speced it out
